---
title: "Automated Basement Car Park Design: Impact of Design Factors on Static Capacity"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/2024-paper-5
excerpt: 'Car parks are essential for every new development, but they often result in inefficient use of space. ...'
date: 2024-04-05
venue: 'Journal of Architectural Engineering'
# slidesurl: 'http://academicpages.github.io/files/slides1.pdf'
paperurl: 'https://doi.org/10.1061/JAEIED.AEENG-1609'
# bibtexurl: 'http://zyh-m.github.io/files/bibtex1.bib'
citation: "<span style='font-size: 0.7em;'>Jamaludin, M. H. B., <strong>Zhou, Y.</strong>, & Yeoh, J. K. W. (2024). <em>Automated Basement Car Park Design: Impact of Design Factors on Static Capacity.</em> <em>Journal of Architectural Engineering</em>, <strong>30</strong>(2), 04024013. <a href='https://doi.org/10.1061/JAEIED.AEENG-1609' target='_blank'>https://doi.org/10.1061/JAEIED.AEENG-1609</a></span>"
---
Car parks are essential for every new development, but they often result in inefficient use of space. To save space, basement car parks are adopted. However, their capacity is limited by the building footprint and immovable vertical structural elements. Current research on basement car parks mainly focuses on ventilation under extreme situations such as fires. The impact of specific design factors unique to basement car parks on capacity has not been fully studied yet. Therefore, this paper investigates the impact of basement car park design factors on capacity by studying three design aspects: parking aisle network, building footprint, and column positions. A parking lot placement algorithm is proposed to help model and automate the car park design process. Parking lots are optimized using a genetic algorithm (GA). A series of impact analyses have been conducted for three selected design factors. Four design principles from prior research were used to analyze and compare the impact of design factors on parking lots. It was found that the proposed design optimization method can automate basement car park design and facilitate the impact analysis of design factors. Based on the impact analysis, the increase in parking lots for each layout is not strictly positively correlated with the perimeter of the parking aisle. The long rectangle building footprint can have a larger capacity compared with other shapes. Adjusting column positions can provide more space for parking lots and further optimize car park capacity.
