---
title: "Seminar 1: Facilitating knowledge transfer during code compliance checking using Conceptual Graphs (CG)"
collection: talks
type: "Seminar"
permalink: /talks/2022-talk-1
venue: "National University of Singapore"
date: 2022-05-25
location: "Singapore"
excerpt: "This study proposes a method using reusable conceptual graph (CG) patterns to reduce knowledge loss and improve the consistency, quality, and efficiency of knowledge transfer in building code compliance checking...."
---
The rules in building codes are composed of language, logic structure and the embedded knowledge that requires further articulation from rule experts. This greatly increases the complexity of rule interpretation. Conceptual graph (CG) is used as a graph-based representation method to capture such knowledge and transfer it to other actors in the compliance checking process. However, it is difficult to ensure the quality of CG to achieve minimal knowledge loss considering its subjectivity. This study proposes a method using reusable CG patterns to reduce the knowledge loss caused by the opacity of concepts in rules, hence better facilitating knowledge transfer using CGs. The rules and their corresponding CGs are analyzed and compared. An assessment framework is used to assess CGs for correctness, completeness, complexity, and comprehensibility. A group of reusable CG patterns is then generated based on the analysis results of concepts in existing CGs. In a case study, rules selected from two sets of building codes are used to validate the proposed methods. The results successfully prove the effectiveness of CG in facilitating knowledge transfer. Moreover, the comparison of quality between original CGs and improved CGs shows that using reusable CG patterns can effectively ease the creation of new CGs and improve the consistency of CGs.
